.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH CRRCSIM 1 "JULY 2008" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
crrcsim \- a model\-airplane flight simulation program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "crrcsim [-fvhV] [\-l \fIlandscape-file\fP] [\-c \fIcdepth\fP]"
.B "[\-x \fIxres\fP] [\-y \fIyres\fP]"
.br
.B "[\-d \fIwinddir\fP] [\-w \fIwindvel\fP] [\-g \fIconfig-file\fP] [\-s \fIon|off\fP]"
.B "[\-u \fIon|off\fP]"
.br
.B "[\-m \fIAILERON|RUDDER\fP]"
.B "[\-b \fInr:buttonfunc\fP]"
.B "[\-i \fImethod\fP]"
.I airplane-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crrcsim
is a model-airplane flight simulation program for Linux
with ports to other platforms. Using crrcsim you can learn how to
fly model aircraft, test new aircraft designs, and improve your
skills by practicing in the relative safety of your PC.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-b nr:buttonfunc"
Bind a joystick button to a function.
.I nr
is the number of the joystick button. For example, -b 2:INCTHROTTLE 
will increase the current throttle setting by 10% each time button #2 is pressed.
See section BUTTON FUNCTIONS for a listing of all possible functions.
.IP "-c cdepth"
Color-depth in bits-per-pixel
.IP "-d winddir"
Wind direction in degrees.
.IP -f
Start in fullscreen mode.
.IP "-g config-file"
Specify a config file.
.IP -h
Display help and exit.
.IP "-i type"
Select input method.
.IP "-l landscape-file"
Load the landscape defined by 
.I landscape-file
.IP "-m AILERON|RUDDER"
Specify which function is controlled by horizontal mouse movement (if the input method is
set to MOUSE).
.IP "-s on|off"
Enable/disable sound (default: on).
.IP "-u on|off"
Enable/disable graphical user interface (default: on).
.IP -v
Enable on-screen display of some values. This option may be specified up to three times.
.IP -V
Only print version information and exit.
.IP "-w windvel"
Wind velocity in ft/s.
.IP "-x xres"
Horizontal resolution in pixels.
.IP "-y yres"
Vertical resolution in pixels.
.SH "BUTTON FUNCTIONS"
.IP PAUSE
Pause the simulation.
.IP RESUME
Resume the simulation from pause mode.
.IP RESET
Restart the simulation with the current configuration.
.IP ZOOMIN
Increase the zoom factor of the current view.
.IP ZOOMOUT
Decrease the zoom factor of the current view.
.IP INCTHROTTLE
Increase the throttle by 10%.
.IP DECTHROTTLE
Decrease the throttle by 10%.
.SH "INPUT METHODS"
.IP KEYBOARD
The airplane is controlled by the keyboard.
.IP MOUSE
Elevator and either aileron or rudder (depending on the
.B -m
option) are controlled by the mouse. Throttle can be adjusted
by using the keyboard.
.IP JOYSTICK
The airplane is controlled by the joystick. Control functions can be
mapped to the joystick axes with the
.B -b
option.
.IP RCTRAN
Reads the PPM signal from an r/c transmitter using the parallel port and
the rctran kernel module.
.IP SERPIC
For PPM interfaces connected to a serial port (aka 'FMS interface').
.IP SERIAL2
A different serial port interface.
.IP PARALLEL
Reads the PPM signal from an r/c transmitter using the parallel port.
.IP AUDIO
Reads the PPM signal from an r/c transmitter using a sound card.
.IP MNAV
Interface to the MNAV autopilot system.
.IP ZHENHUA
For Walkera transmitters connected directly to the serial port.
.SH FILES
.I ~/.crrcsim/crrcsim.xml
.RS
Default configuration file. Overridden by the
.B -g
option.
.SH HISTORY
.B crrcsim
was originally written by Jan Kansky <kansky@ll.mit.edu>. 
You may contact the current maintainers on the crrcsim-devel mailing list
at <crrcsim-devel@lists.berlios.de>.

